
Alright, it's time try StoryGrind. 

Let's get it installed and working with OpenRouter 
- the easiest AI provider for anyone to start with.


DOWNLOAD & INSTALL
Go to: 
https://github.com/cleesmith/storygrind/releases/latest
- see link in this video's description and pinned comment
- now, download the proper file for your Mac:
- Apple Silicon .dmg for newer Macs (M1, M2, M3, M4 chips)
  or
- Apple Intel .dmg for older Intel Macs

Open it in Downloads and an install popup window appears:
- drag storygrind.app to Applications
- click on the red dot to close that window, you can eject it too

In the Applications folder in Finder, 
let's click on storygrind to launch it for the first time,
you will see Apple's gatekeeper security popup
- this is normal for downloaded apps that are not from the App Store
- click Open on the security dialog to continue
Both Apple versions are signed and notarized through the Apple Developer Program, 
so they're safe to run, which is why you see this message:
"Apple checked it for malicious software and none was detected."

On the first launch, StoryGrind will open the Settings window. 
- choose OpenRouter from the AI provider selection dropdown
- click 'Save & Quit'


OPENROUTER SETUP
Now, get your OpenRouter API key 
- it's like a key that unlocks the door to AI's 
Go to openrouter.ai and sign up - it's free to start, 
but to use OpenRouter with your API key consider buying $20 in credits.
No, I am not affliated with them, or anyone, 
and I feel AI should be free but it's 2025.

Once signed up and logged in
- click Keys in the sidebar, then Create Key. 
Give it any name you want and 
COPY THAT KEY - this is important as you only see the key once!
However, you can always delete old keys and create new ones, so 
all is not lost if you forget to make a copy.


STORYGRIND
Back in StoryGrind's Settings 
- paste your API key in the API Key field
- click 'Save & Quit'

Relaunch StoryGrind, then go back into Settings. 

If your API key is working, you will see a big list of available models 
to choose from, but the most commonly used AI providers
are in that list: Anthropic's Claude, Google's Gemini, OpenAI's GPTs.

If not, double check that your API key is correct, you can 
click the eyeball 👁️ to see and verify.

Select your model
- click 'Save & Quit'
- relaunch StoryGrind
and you're ready to create your first project and start getting 
AI-powered insights on your manuscript. 

CAVEAT
Yes, it is confusing to set up the API key for the first time: 
with all of the Settings, 
and relaunching the app several times, 
but it's only a one-time event. 
And the purpose of all of that is to ensure your API keys are 
safe and encrypted ... after all, keys are a bit like money, your money.

THAT'S IT!
but wait there's more ...
This is the first in a series of videos about StoryGrind; each aimed at 
everything from installation, setting up API keys, to actually using 
the tools and prompts for editing your manuscripts.


